---
layout: post
title:  "Pat 甲级 训练真题集 1090!"

---
# 1090. Highest Price in Supply Chain (25)

​    时间限制  

​    200 ms

​    内存限制  

​    65536 kB

​    代码长度限制  

​    16000 B

​      判题程序    

​      Standard    

​      作者    

​      CHEN, Yue

A supply chain is a network of retailers（零售商）, distributors（经销商）, and suppliers（供应商）-- everyone involved in moving a product from supplier to customer.

Starting from one root supplier, everyone on the chain buys products from one's supplier in a price P and sell or distribute them in a price that is r% higher than P.  It is assumed that each member in the supply chain has exactly one supplier except the root supplier, and there is no supply cycle.

Now given a supply chain, you are supposed to tell the highest price we can expect from some retailers.

**Input Specification:**

Each input file contains one test case.  For each case, The first line contains three positive numbers: N (<=105), the total number of the members in the supply chain (and hence they are numbered from 0 to N-1); P, the price given by the root supplier; and r, the percentage rate of price increment for each distributor or retailer.  Then the next line contains N numbers, each number Si is the index of the supplier for the i-th member.  Sroot for the root supplier is defined to be -1.  All the numbers in a line are separated by a space.

**Output Specification:**

For each test case, print in one line the highest price we can expect from some retailers, accurate up to 2 decimal places, and the number of retailers that sell at the highest price.  There must be one space between the two numbers.  It is guaranteed that the price will not exceed 1010.

Sample Input:

```
9 1.80 1.00
1 5 4 4 -1 4 5 3 6

```

Sample Output:

```
1.85 2
```

dfs深度遍历（root,height）;

本来想用bfs遍历，其中有一个难点就是怎么判断一层什么时候结束

所以想看有没有人用bfs的在网上没搜到。。。只好用一眼就看到了的dfs。。。

代码如下：[参考地址](http://www.liuchuo.net/archives/2465)

```c++
#include<iostream>
#include<vector>
#include<queue>
#include<cmath>
using namespace std;

vector<int> v[100001];
int n;
int maxdeep=0,maxnum=0;



void dfs(int root,int height){
	if(v[root].size()==0){
		if(maxdeep==height){
			++maxnum;
		}else if(maxdeep<height){
			maxdeep=height;
			maxnum=1;
		}
		return;
	}
	for(int i=0;i<v[root].size();++i){
		dfs(v[root][i],height+1);
	}
}


int main(){
	double p,r;
	scanf("%d%lf%lf",&n,&p,&r);
	int root;
	for(int i=0;i<n;++i){
		int value;
		scanf("%d",&value);
		
		if(value==-1)root=i;
		else v[value].push_back(i);
	}
	dfs(root,0);

	printf("%0.2lf %d",p*pow(1+r/100,maxdeep),maxnum);

	return 0;
}
```

