---
layout: post
title:  "Pat 甲级 训练真题集 1079!"

---
# 1079. Total Sales of Supply Chain (25)

​    时间限制  

​    250 ms

​    内存限制  

​    65536 kB

​    代码长度限制  

​    16000 B

​      判题程序    

​      Standard    

​      作者    

​      CHEN, Yue

A supply chain is a network of retailers（零售商）, distributors（经销商）, and suppliers（供应商）-- everyone involved in moving a product from supplier to customer.

Starting from one root supplier, everyone on the chain buys products from one's supplier in a price P and sell or distribute them in a price that is r% higher than P.  Only the retailers will face the customers.It is assumed that each member in the supply chain has exactly one supplier except the root supplier, and there is no supply cycle.

Now given a supply chain, you are supposed to tell the total sales from all the retailers.

**Input Specification:**

Each input file contains one test case.  For each case, the first line contains three positive numbers: N (<=105), the total number of the members in the supply chain (and hence their ID's are numbered from 0 to N-1, and the root supplier's ID is 0); P, the unit price given by the root supplier; and r, the percentage rate of price increment for each distributor or retailer.  Then N lines follow, each describes a distributor or retailer in the following format:

Ki ID[1] ID[2] ... ID[Ki]

where in the i-th line, Ki is the total number of distributors or retailers who receive products from supplier i, and is then followed by the ID's of these distributors or retailers.  Kj being 0 means that the j-th member is a retailer, then instead the total amount of the product will be given after Kj.  All the numbers in a line are separated by a space.

**Output Specification:**

For each test case, print in one line the total sales we can expect from all the retailers, accurate up to 1 decimal place.  It is guaranteed that the number will not exceed 1010.

Sample Input:

```
10 1.80 1.00
3 2 3 5
1 9
1 4
1 7
0 7
2 6 1
1 8
0 9
0 4
0 3

```

Sample Output:

```
42.4
```

我觉得需要注意的点有retailers（零售商）的存货不一定是整数，我就是这里被坑。。尴尬

首先利用map存储孩子

利用v存储retailers（零售商）容量

然后利用dfs即可

代码如下：

```c++
#include<iostream>
#include<cmath>
#include<vector>
using namespace std;


vector<int> map[100010];
vector<double>v;
int n;
double p,r;
double sum=0.0;
void dfs(int root,int height){
	if(map[root].size()==0){
		sum+=p*pow(1+r/100,height)*v[root];
		return;
	}
	for(int i=0;i<map[root].size();++i){
		dfs(map[root][i],height+1);
	}
}



int main(){
	scanf("%d%lf%lf",&n,&p,&r);
	v.resize(n);
	for(int i=0;i<n;++i){
		int num;
		double child;
		scanf("%d",&num);
		if(num==0){
			scanf("%lf",&child);
			v[i]=child;
			continue;
		}
		for(int j=0;j<num;++j){
			scanf("%lf",&child);
			map[i].push_back(child);
		}
	}
	dfs(0,0);
	printf("%0.1f",sum);
	return 0;
}
```

